pages/CV.md, before:

---
layout: base
title: Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /CV/
background: /assets/img/groupLogo/CV.jpg
---

### EDUCATION
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- **Ph.D. in Biology**, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (06/2022–present)  
  Thesis: *“Design and development of bioinformatics tools for the effective and systematic distinction between true (biological) and artificial somatic variants in pathological conditions, focusing on low-frequency variants”*  
  Supervisor: [Andreas Agathangelidis](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=IhoRB4AAAAAJ&hl=en)

- **M.Sc. in Digital Media and Computational Intelligence**, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (09/2019–09/2021)  
  Grade: 9.20/10 (Excellent)  
  Thesis: *"Applications of Deep Learning on gravitational waves"* (with the [Gravitational Waves Group, AUTh](https://niksterg.github.io/gw-group/))  
  Supervisor: [Anastasios Tefas](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=4stOS3YAAAAJ&hl=en)

- **B.Sc. in Physics**, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (10/2010–04/2019)  
  Grade: 6.64/10 (Very Good)  
  Thesis: *"Study of the merging of a neutron star with a black hole and the role of the equation of state"*  
  Supervisor: [Charalampos Moustakidis](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=7qdKh78AAAAJ&hl=en)

---

### EMPLOYMENT
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- **Research Associate**, [Bioinformatics Lab](https://biodataanalysisgroup.github.io/), [INAB](https://inab.certh.gr/) at [CERTH](https://www.certh.gr/root.en.aspx), Thessaloniki, Greece (11/2021–present)  
  Supervisor: [Fotis Psomopoulos](https://scholar.google.gr/citations?user=Fp0LAqsAAAAJ&hl=en)  
  Duties: Bioinformatics software development and ML applications, participation in the [ELIXIR AI Ecosystem FG](https://elixir-europe.org/focus-groups/ai-ecosystem), involvement in student supervision and teaching, EU proposal writing, and participation in European-funded projects.

#### Participation in Funded Projects

| Duration | Project | Position Description | Funder |
|:--------:|:-------:|:-----------:|:------:|
| 01/2025–present | [**SYNTHIA**](https://www.ihi-synthia.eu/) | ML methods for generating and evaluating synthetic data | [HORIZON-JU-IHI-2023-05](https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/myarea/project/101172872/program/43108390/details) |
| 06/2024–12/2024 | [**EVERSE**](https://everse.software/) | Tools and practices for research software quality assessment | [HORIZON-INFRA-2023-EOSC-01](https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-infra-2023-eosc-01-02) |
| 09/2023–05/2024 | [**SciLake**](https://scilake.eu/) | Algorithms for large-scale biodata analysis | [HORIZON-INFRA-2021-EOSC-01-04](https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-infra-2021-eosc-01-04) |
| 11/2021–08/2023 | [**Gallantries**](https://gallantries.github.io/) | Bioinformatics educational content development | [Erasmus+](https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/erasmus-plus/node_en) |


---

### TEACHING EXPERIENCE
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

#### Workshops and Courses

- **Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Life Sciences**, Aussois, France (19–23/05/2025)  
  Instructor in an intensive course focused on ML and generative AI in the life sciences. [Details](https://moodle.france-bioinformatique.fr/course/view.php?id=34) | [DOME Tutorial](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/statistics/tutorials/dome/tutorial.html)

- **Exploratory analysis of biological data: Data Carpentry**, EMBL Heidelberg & Virtual (22–26/01/2024)  
  Helper in a hands-on workshop teaching data analysis fundamentals. [EMBL Course](https://www.embl.org/about/info/course-and-conference-office/events/dtc24-01/#vf-tabs__section-speakers)

- **WES / WGS Data Analysis**, IMGGE, Belgrade, Serbia (28/11–01/12/2022)  
  Taught CNV calling using [CNVkit](https://cnvkit.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). [Materials](https://github.com/BiodataAnalysisGroup/IMGGE-WES-WGS-data-analysis-workshop)

- **Introduction to Python**, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (03/2021)  
  Six-hour crash course for 4th-year Physics students. [Course Materials](https://github.com/sfragkoul/Python_Intro)

#### Student Supervision  

- Support in the supervision of M.Sc. thesis: [*Generative methods in bioinformatics: the use case of synthetic genomics data*](https://repo.lib.duth.gr/jspui/handle/123456789/19432), ["Applied Bioinformatics & Data Analysis"](https://duth.gr/en/Education/PostGraduate-Studies/%ce%b5%cf%86%ce%b1%cf%81%ce%bc%ce%bf%cf%83%ce%bc%ce%b5%ce%bd%ce%b7-%ce%b2%ce%b9%ce%bf%cf%80%ce%bb%ce%b7%cf%81%ce%bf%cf%86%ce%bf%cf%81%ce%b9%ce%ba%ce%b7-%ce%ba%ce%b1%ce%b9-%ce%b1%ce%bd%ce%b1%ce%bb%cf%85%cf%83%ce%b7-%ce%b4%ce%b5%ce%b4%ce%bf%ce%bc%ce%b5%ce%bd%cf%89%ce%bd187-applied-bioinformatics-data-analysis), Democritus University of Thrace.  
- Support in the supervision of 2 student internships.

---

### FELLOWSHIPS AND AWARDS
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- Travel grant from the [International Society for Computational Biology](https://www.iscb.org/) to present the poster *Benchmarking Somatic Variant Callers: A Tale Unfolding In The Synthetic Genomics Feature Space* at [ECCB2024](https://eccb2024.fi/), Turku, Finland (16–20/09/2024).
- Invited attendee at [BioHackathon Europe 2023](https://biohackathon-europe.org/) as co-lead for [Project 2](https://github.com/elixir-europe/biohackathon-projects-2023/tree/main/2), Barcelona, Spain (31/10–01/11/2023), funded by [ELIXIR](https://elixir-europe.org/).

---

### ACADEMIC SERVICES
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

#### Ad hoc Reviewer  
- Elsevier: *[Expert Systems With Applications](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/expert-systems-with-applications)*, *[Neurocomputing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/neurocomputing)*, *[Swarm and Evolutionary Computation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/swarm-and-evolutionary-computation/about/aims-and-scope)*, *[Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/computer-methods-and-programs-in-biomedicine)*
- Oxford University Press & ISCB: *[Bioinformatics Advances](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformaticsadvances)*
- IEEE: *[Data Descriptions](https://www.ieee-data.org/)*

#### Organising Committees  
- [*EOSC-EVERSE Kick-off Meeting*](https://everse.software/), Thessaloniki, Greece (11–15/03/2024)  
- *17th Conference of the Hellenic Society for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (HSCBB23)*, Thessaloniki, Greece (10–12/10/2023)

---

### MEMBERSHIPS
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- Member, [International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB)](https://www.iscb.org/) (2023–present)

Commit message:

Revise CV with new academic and job experiences
Updated CV with additional educational and employment details, including thesis information and project participation.

pages/CV.md, after:

---
layout: base
title: Curriculum Vitae
permalink: /CV/
background: /assets/img/groupLogo/CV.jpg
---

### EDUCATION
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- **Ph.D. in Biology**, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (06/2022–present)  
  Thesis: *“Design and development of bioinformatics tools for the effective and systematic distinction between true (biological) and artificial somatic variants in pathological conditions, focusing on low-frequency variants”*  
  Supervisor: [Andreas Agathangelidis](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=IhoRB4AAAAAJ&hl=en)

- **M.Sc. in Digital Media and Computational Intelligence**, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (09/2019–09/2021)  
  Grade: 9.20/10 (Excellent)  
  Thesis: *"Applications of Deep Learning on gravitational waves"*  
  Supervisor: [Anastasios Tefas](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=4stOS3YAAAAJ&hl=en)

- **B.Sc. in Physics**, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (10/2010–04/2019)  
  Grade: 6.64/10 (Very Good)  
  Thesis: *"Study of the merging of a neutron star with a black hole and the role of the equation of state"*  
  Supervisor: [Charalampos Moustakidis](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=7qdKh78AAAAJ&hl=en)

---

### EMPLOYMENT & SCIENTIFIC EXPERIENCE
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- **Research Associate**, [Bioinformatics Lab](https://biodataanalysisgroup.github.io/), [INAB](https://inab.certh.gr/) at [CERTH](https://www.certh.gr/root.en.aspx), Thessaloniki, Greece (11/2021–present)  
  Group Lead: [Fotis Psomopoulos](https://scholar.google.gr/citations?user=Fp0LAqsAAAAJ&hl=en)  
  Duties: Bioinformatics software development and ML applications, participation in the [ELIXIR AI Ecosystem FG](https://elixir-europe.org/focus-groups/ai-ecosystem), involvement in student supervision and teaching, EU proposal writing, and participation in European-funded projects.


> | Duration | Project | Position Description | Funder |
> |:--------:|:-------:|:-----------:|:------:|
> | 01/2025–present | [**SYNTHIA**](https://www.ihi-synthia.eu/) | ML methods for generating and evaluating synthetic data | [HORIZON-JU-IHI-2023-05](https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/myarea/project/101172872/program/43108390/details) |
> | 06/2024–12/2024 | [**EVERSE**](https://everse.software/) | Tools and practices for research software quality assessment | [HORIZON-INFRA-2023-EOSC-01](https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-infra-2023-eosc-01-02) |
> | 09/2023–05/2024 | [**SciLake**](https://scilake.eu/) | Algorithms for large-scale biodata analysis | [HORIZON-INFRA-2021-EOSC-01-04](https://ec.europa.eu/info/funding-tenders/opportunities/portal/screen/opportunities/topic-details/horizon-infra-2021-eosc-01-04) |
> | 11/2021–08/2023 | [**Gallantries**](https://gallantries.github.io/) | Bioinformatics educational content development | [Erasmus+](https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/erasmus-plus/node_en) |


- **PhD Student**, Department of Biology, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (06/2022–present)  
  Conceived and implemented [synth4bench](https://github.com/sfragkoul/synth4bench), an open‑source synthetic data generation and benchmarking pipeline for low‑frequency somatic‑variant deconvolution.

- **Master Student**, Department of Informatics, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (09/2020–09/2021)  
  Application of [Deep Learning Methods](https://github.com/sfragkoul/residual-gw-surrogate-modelling)  for [COST Action CA17137](https://www.cost.eu/actions/CA17137/) in collaboration with the [CIDL research group](https://cidl.csd.auth.gr/) and the [Gravitational Waves Group, AUTh](https://niksterg.github.io/gw-group/).


---

### TEACHING EXPERIENCE
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

#### Workshops and Courses

- **Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Life Sciences**, Aussois, France (19–23/05/2025)  
  Instructor in an intensive course focused on ML and generative AI in the life sciences. [Details](https://moodle.france-bioinformatique.fr/course/view.php?id=34) | [DOME Tutorial](https://training.galaxyproject.org/training-material/topics/statistics/tutorials/dome/tutorial.html)

- **Exploratory analysis of biological data: Data Carpentry**, EMBL Heidelberg & Virtual (22–26/01/2024)  
  Helper in a hands-on workshop teaching data analysis fundamentals. [EMBL Course](https://www.embl.org/about/info/course-and-conference-office/events/dtc24-01/#vf-tabs__section-speakers)

- **WES / WGS Data Analysis**, IMGGE, Belgrade, Serbia (28/11–01/12/2022)  
  Taught CNV calling using [CNVkit](https://cnvkit.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). [Materials](https://github.com/BiodataAnalysisGroup/IMGGE-WES-WGS-data-analysis-workshop)

- **Introduction to Python**, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki (03/2021)  
  Six-hour crash course for 4th-year Physics students. [Course Materials](https://github.com/sfragkoul/Python_Intro)

#### Student Supervision  

- Support in the supervision of M.Sc. thesis: [*Generative methods in bioinformatics: the use case of synthetic genomics data*](https://repo.lib.duth.gr/jspui/handle/123456789/19432), ["Applied Bioinformatics & Data Analysis"](https://duth.gr/en/Education/PostGraduate-Studies/%ce%b5%cf%86%ce%b1%cf%81%ce%bc%ce%bf%cf%83%ce%bc%ce%b5%ce%bd%ce%b7-%ce%b2%ce%b9%ce%bf%cf%80%ce%bb%ce%b7%cf%81%ce%bf%cf%86%ce%bf%cf%81%ce%b9%ce%ba%ce%b7-%ce%ba%ce%b1%ce%b9-%ce%b1%ce%bd%ce%b1%ce%bb%cf%85%cf%83%ce%b7-%ce%b4%ce%b5%ce%b4%ce%bf%ce%bc%ce%b5%ce%bd%cf%89%ce%bd187-applied-bioinformatics-data-analysis), Democritus University of Thrace.  
- Support in the supervision of 2 student internships.

---

### FELLOWSHIPS AND AWARDS
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- Travel grant from the [International Society for Computational Biology](https://www.iscb.org/) to present the poster *Benchmarking Somatic Variant Callers: A Tale Unfolding In The Synthetic Genomics Feature Space* at [ECCB2024](https://eccb2024.fi/), Turku, Finland (16–20/09/2024).
- Invited attendee at [BioHackathon Europe 2023](https://biohackathon-europe.org/) as co-lead for [Project 2](https://github.com/elixir-europe/biohackathon-projects-2023/tree/main/2), Barcelona, Spain (31/10–01/11/2023), funded by [ELIXIR](https://elixir-europe.org/).

---

### ACADEMIC SERVICES
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

#### Ad hoc Reviewer  
- Elsevier: *[Expert Systems With Applications](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/expert-systems-with-applications)*, *[Neurocomputing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/neurocomputing)*, *[Swarm and Evolutionary Computation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/swarm-and-evolutionary-computation/about/aims-and-scope)*, *[Computer Methods and Programs in Biomedicine](https://www.sciencedirect.com/journal/computer-methods-and-programs-in-biomedicine)*
- Oxford University Press & ISCB: *[Bioinformatics Advances](https://academic.oup.com/bioinformaticsadvances)*
- IEEE: *[Data Descriptions](https://www.ieee-data.org/)*

#### Organising Committees  
- [*EOSC-EVERSE Kick-off Meeting*](https://everse.software/), Thessaloniki, Greece (11–15/03/2024)  
- *17th Conference of the Hellenic Society for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (HSCBB23)*, Thessaloniki, Greece (10–12/10/2023)

---

### MEMBERSHIPS
<p style="margin-bottom:15px"></p>

- Member, [International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB)](https://www.iscb.org/) (2023–present)
